---
title: "Database Systems Teaching Assistant"
layout: post
date: 2025-03-21 22:48
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
category: blog
author: jamesfoster
description: Markdown summary with different options
---

## Context

UW's CSE department offers two very similar introductory databases classes: an in-major version (344) and a non-major version (414). While I didn't have too much of a preference for TAing for one or the other, I'd be lying if I said that it wouldn't feel daunting to teach my own departmental peers. In hindsight, this uneasiness may have led me to prefer TAing 414. I ended up doing so for two quarters, 24au and 25wi, under Professor Ryan Maas.

The course's content starts with SQL basics, including joins, aggregations, and subqueries. It then covers database theory, including relational algebra, data modeling with entity-relationship diagrams, and database normalization. It then teaches concepts for supporting concurrent database users like transactions, scheduling, serializability, and locking. The rest of the course goes over more helpful concepts like cost estimation, indexing, parallel databases, and semi-structured data.

## Thoughts

My main duties were co-teaching a weekly quiz section, leading a weekly office hour, responding to questions on the class forum, and grading assignments and exams. My favorite part would be teaching quiz sections - it's just as empowering as I thought it would be. I was able to use my own experience learning the topics to make my explanations more accessible, intuitive, concise, and easy-to-follow. Helping students in office hours was also rewarding. Here, questions would skew more towards homework setup rather than actual homework content, probably because students can easily ask on the discussion board for the latter but need more involved 1:1 support with the former. I found that general debugging intuition I've gathered from building my own personal projects helped the most here. I found that both quiz section and office hours got much easier to lead in my second quarter.

I am immensely grateful to the rest of the teaching staff. Often times, the lead TA would take on almost all of the message board response duties. Lead TAs really spent a lot of time improving the course for students and saving the rest of the course staff time.